- [Narrator] In Maven, there are core plugins
like the Compiler plugin,
but there's also a large ecosystem of third party plugins
that we can use in our projects build.
Let's add one more plugin to our build,
this time from a third party.
The plugin we'll add is named Dependency Check.
It scans our application for known security vulnerabilities
when we execute a build.
Here on Maven central, which is the repository
where Maven will fetch the plugin from,
you can see information about the plugin.
Now, when we use a third party plugin,
typically we'll need to do a little bit of research
about how to use it.
So let's navigate to the source code
for the plugin on GitHub.
Inside of the source code, we'll find the read me file.
It links to the documentation for the plugin.
Let's head over to this GitHub page.
On the page, we see some examples
of how we can use the plugin within our project.
This first example performs a security analysis
as part of our build.
If we scroll down,
you'll notice that the plugin can also fail our build
if it finds a vulnerability that's severe enough.
Let's go ahead and we'll copy this configuration
so that we can include it within our Maven project.
Once I've copied the XML,
I'm going to return to Eclipse
and then inside of the plugins tag,
I'm going to go ahead and paste it.
Okay, so now the plugin is part of our Maven project.
Let's head over to the terminal
where we can learn more about the plugin.
To do that, we're going to use another Maven plugin,
the Help plugin.
On the Help plugin is the describe goal.
It can tell us more about the different plugins
that are included within our Maven project.
All we need to do is pass it the plugin flag
and then provide the name of our plugin.
So first I'll write the group ID or .owasp
and then I'll need to provide the name of the plugin,
dependency-check-maven.
All right, let's go ahead and we'll execute this command
and there we can see that information
about the Dependency Check plugin has been provided.
You'll notice,
information about the plugins goals has been provided.
A goal is like an action the plugin can perform.
It's very similar to a task in Gradle.
In my mind, I think of it like a method on a class.
When we run a Maven build, it's executing a set of goals
that are found on the plugins in our project.
On our Dependency Check plugin,
the check goal is what will perform
the actual security analysis of our project.
Let's go ahead and we can execute this goal.
In Maven, there are several ways
the goals on a plugin can be executed.
We're going to execute a single goal
directly on the plugin using the command line.
So we'll use the Maven wrapper,
then we'll provide the name of our plugin
and then we just need to specify the goal
that we want to execute.
All right, let's go ahead and we'll kick off the goal
to start the security scan.
There we can see that the scan has completed.
You'll notice it created a report that we can access.
So I'm going to go ahead and copy the path to the report.
Then I'll open another tab
and here I'll use Firefox to open the report.
If we take a look at the report, you'll see that
no vulnerabilities were found in our project.
That's good.
The goals provided by plugins
are important when working with Maven
because they allow us to add other steps into our build.
We saw how to directly execute a goal on a plugin,
but goals can also be bound to different phases
in our build life cycle.
We'll learn more about this in our next lesson.